25 graphic design tips for non-designers and beginners

Get your graphic design game-face on with these inspiring tips.

Whether you’re a creating social media graphics or designing invitations for an upcoming event, the application of graphic design is vast and versatile. From font pairing and scale, to alignment and white space, the facets of the design world are complex. Let these 26 epic design tips help you through the pits and the peaks of the creative process.

Click on the ‘remix this design’ link throughout the post to create your own designs.

01. Limit your typefaces
image07
Remix this design

When selecting a typeface or font for headings, subtitles and body text, use easy to read fonts for simple and effective graphic design. The eye finds it hard to scan multiple typefaces, so stick to a simple collection of fonts. This design uses variants from the Aileron font family, a geometric sans serif typeface that has a simple and modern aesthetic.

02. Don’t be scared of scale
image09
Remix this design

Apply scale to type, shapes or compositional features that need proportionate emphasis. Use appropriate colors to enhance this technique while making sure suitable typefaces that look good when increased in size. Here, Raleway for the word ‘Scale’ is strong and bold with clear forms.

03. Respect the space of other elements
image08
Remix this design

Use letter spacing to fill dead space, aligning text, or condense words that take up too much space. However, be careful not to reduce letter spacing so much it can’t be read, or increase it so much the letters become detached from one another. Here, the decreased letter spacing on the word ‘Respect’ gives a condensed effect, as a visual representation of space, or lack thereof.

04. Use a small color scheme
image11
Remix this design

Choose a color scheme that has 1-3 primary colors and an additional 1-3 secondary colors that contrast and complement each other. Use different tones of the same color for consistency by adjusting brightness for contrast. Finer typefaces will need stronger distinction against a colored background. Here, bright aqua is offset against forest green background for clarity and readability.

05. Create Clean, crisp and clear imagery
image10
Remix this design

Pump up contrast by adjusting the brightness of the background image so that it offsets the text color, making the design clear and easy to read. This is a great way to apply white or black text over an image to create a strong ‘cut-out’ effect.


YOUR TURN
Remember: be creative, break the rules and push your design skills by coming up with new and innovative ideas. At the end of the day, graphic design is about exploration and experimentation.
